We set up our stocks to be visible like this,
now we also want to fill them with some data,
we get some dummy data here, we'll soon replace this but for now it's good to use that here.
I of course want to send the stock I'm at in this loop here to this stock component.
We learned how to do this with props,
so I'm going to add this stock prop here and notice the colon to bind it dynamically to the stock variable
we're creating in this loop
and with that I can go to my stock component and here, I'll add a script part to it
now and I want to export the default object and in this object, of course set up my props and props
is at least stock because I'm getting this individual stock sent to this component here.
Now with the stock being available here, I can of course replace my placeholders to output the actual
stock name, the actual stock price and also to then start setting up my input and this buy button because
I want to make them, I want to make them work right, at least the basic functionality.
Now for the input I want to bind this to my data object, so here I will return a new object of course
which is quantity which is 0 initially and I will bind my input here by passing v-model equals
quantity, like this, quantity, this will now bind my input to this data field and we can see this
if we switch over, we now see the names, the real prices and all the inputs are populated with zero.
The next step now is to set up the button,
for now I only want to log it to the console, we'll soon change this though, in order to set up the button,
I'll add a click listener here and I'll want to execute buy stock here, let's say. Now of course to be able
to execute this, I need to add my methods property in this vue instance
and I want to have my buy stock method in there
and here I will create a new order.
Now this order is basically a javascript object where I do have my stock ID and for that, I can simply
access the stock I get passed
via props binding or via the property binding here,
the prop up there, this ID of the stock. I want to have a stock price,
this of course is this stock price,
that's the price of the individual stock
and I want to have the quantity, this quantity.
This is my order
and with that we're of course able to calculate the total price with quantity times the individual
stock price.
Now with that, I kind of want to buy it, for now
we don't do that because for that
we will need vuex,
we need our global state management where I then want to of course change my funds and so on. So
I don't do that right now,
instead I want to simply console log this order and I will set this quantity back to null thereafter,
to zero to be precise,
so to reset it after the order. If we save this and have a look at our application,
if I open the console here and enter 10 and click on buy, we see this almost worked, though the stock price
of undefined,
that doesn't look right.
Well the reason is that this should be stock.price not stock price in the camel case,
so with this, if we try this again too, that looks much better.
So we got our buy button hooked up, we got the input hooked up,
now one thing we can do right now is I can enter -10 for example and buy this and you see it in the
console that if we have a look at this object, this worked.
This of course is certainly not what I want,
also I could buy more than I have funds, though at the moment I don't have any funds so that is something
will fix in the future
but at least I want to make sure that we can't buy a negative amount of stocks right now. For that,
I will add a new attribute binding to this button where I disable it under certain conditions.
What are these conditions?
Well one of it is that the quantity is smaller or equal to zero,
I can't buy stocks if I don't buy at least one of them. I also want to make sure that my number
is an integer,
therefore I check if it's not an integer here in which case I would disable the button,
so if it's not an integer, I want to disable the button. With this in place,
if we go back we see the button is disabled by default, if I enter -1, it stays disabled,
if I enter 1, it gets enabled, if I enter 1.2, it gets disabled again because
that's not an integer. With that, I got this functionality in place,
I'd say that looks pretty good,
we already see that we're now reaching the point where it's hard to continue as long as we don't have
a proper state management in place because we want to check our funds,
we want to be able to execute the order,
it won't make sense to work on the portfolio if we're not able to really store our purchase somewhere.
So the next videos are definitely about setting up vuex, setting up our state management
and that again is a great challenge for you to take over at this part and try setting this up at your
own, think about what's in your state, which mutations do you have,
how do you dispatch these mutations, which getters do you need and so on.
I'll see you in the next video when I start working on that.